Financial institutions like Microfinance institutions, require efficient systems to facilitate seamless loan processing and monitoring. The existing manual system at Butango Investments (U) Ltd faces challenges like, data fragmentation impeding comprehensive borrower information access, security concerns, and compliance complexities. Additionally, ineffective borrower engagement leads to communication gaps and dissatisfaction.
In light of the prevailing challenges, the development of the new system seeks to revolutionize the current paradigm. The system will encompass a diverse array of loan types, including Business Loans, Individual Loans, Salary Loans, and Group Loans. Moreover, it will facilitate a seamless integration of payment options such as Cash, Mobile Payments, Online banking transfers and Payroll deductions for Salary Loans. Borrowers receive immediate feedback on their eligibility and pre-approved loan amount upon submitting basic information. Once a loan is approved, funds are disbursed to the borrower's designated account. The system allows borrowers to customize their repayment plans that is either fixed or variable installment amounts, frequency of payments. Additionally, predictive analytics is employed to forecast default risks, enabling proactive risk management.
The proposed system adopts a robust three-tier client server architecture to implement the interference mechanism while database component is implemented using PHP and MySQL. The User interface is implemented using HTML and PHP. This system helps users to store, read, update, modify and delete loan data.
